
# README Advanced Simulation

This README file was generated on: 04-04-2025

### Authors:

Ameera Raissa Shafa (6047572)
Berend Domhof      (4659724)
Nils Groenhof     (5092108)
Tobias Schmeink   (4954270)
William Horeman   (4726669)

### Purpose:

The data and the model are created for Assignment 4 in the course EPA133a - Advanced Simulation TU Delft.

### Information:

The attached code and data analyze the criticality and vulnerability of the road network of Bangladesh. The analysis aims to examine the top 10 most vulnerable and critical bridges and roads in the network for cargo transport. Vulnerability and criticality are defined based on a literature research, where vulnerability relates to the probability that roads get impassable after natural disasters (cyclones, heavy rain, flooding, mudslides, earthquakes, etc.), and criticality relates to the amount of goods transported over the road.

The code is written and tested for Python 3.11.8. The specific packages used are given in the requirement.txt file. To use the code an environment for Python should be created and the packages stated in the requirements.txt should be installed. 

### Purpose code files

Various Python files are included. Each has its purpose which will be briefly explained in the Table underneath.

| File                 | Purpose                                                                                                                                              |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| components.py        | Contains the used classes for the model, except the model class itself                                                                               |
| model.py             | Contains the model class which can use the components.py file in combination with the data produced by data.py and links.py to simulate the network. |
| model_run.py         | Runs the model.py. Used to get the data per scenario.                                                                                                |
| visualize_results.py | Visualize the data per scenario from model_run.py                                                                                                    |
| model_viz.py         | Runs the model.py and creates a visualisation of the model results in a separate window.                                                             |

### File structuring

The folder has a specific structure that is as follows:

    EPA133a-G04-A4/
        ├── data/
        ├── data_analysis/
        ├── experiment/
        ├── img/
        └── report/
  

The data folder contains the data files needed and produced by the .py files and should look like:

    data/
     ├── raw/
     │     └── BMMS_overview.xlsx
     │     └── _roads3.csv
     ├── BMMS_overview_vulnerability.xlsx
     ├── bridges_intersected_linked.csv
     └── gdf_roads.csv

The experiment folder contains the results from the data_analysis/road_network.py:

    experiment/
     ├── criticality_ranked_roads.csv

The image folder contains all the images generated by the plot_criticality_vulnerability.ipynb. These images show the results from the analysis and should look like: 

    img/
     ├── ... (The img folder contains of ALL the relevant output of the plot_criticality_vulnerability.ipynb)
     ├── ...
     ├── ...
     └── ...

Lastly, the report folder contains the report that provides detailed information on the analysis conducted for the Bangladesh case. 

    report/
     └── Assignment_4__Group4.pdf


The results of this Assignment can be found in the report. 
